# GFModules Revocation Service

Implementation of <https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-bitstring-status-list/>

> [!IMPORTANT]
> ## Disclaimer
> 
> This project and all associated code serve solely as documentation
> and demonstration purposes to illustrate potential system
> communication patterns and architectures.
> 
> This codebase:
> 
> - Is NOT intended for production use
> - Does NOT represent a final specification
> - Should NOT be considered feature-complete or secure
> - May contain errors, omissions, or oversimplified implementations
> - Has NOT been tested or hardened for real-world scenarios
> - Is not guaranteed to follow any versioning scheme
> 
> The code examples are only meant to help understand concepts and demonstrate possibilities.
> 
> By using or referencing this code, you acknowledge that you do so at your own
> risk and that the authors assume no liability for any consequences of its use.

## Usage

The application is a FastAPI application, so you can use the FastAPI documentation to see how to use the application.

## Development

You can either run the application natively or in a docker container. If you want to run the application natively you
can take a look at the initialisation steps in `docker/init.sh`.

The preferred way to run the application is through docker.

If you run Linux, make sure you export your user ID and group ID to synchronize permissions with the Docker user.

```bash
export NEW_UID=$(id -u)
export NEW_GID=$(id -g)
```

After this you can simply run `docker compose up`.

The application will be available at <https://localhost:8525> when the startup is completed.

## Generate JWK and DID

> [!NOTE]
> Note that the application requires a JWK and DID to be specified in the `app.conf` file. This allows for signing the
> verifiable credential that is generated by the application.

If you need to generate a JWK and DID for testing purposes, you can use the `gen_jwk.py` script in the `app` directory.

At the moment, the application will only generate and support ED25519 keys.

## Docker container builds

There are two ways to build a docker container from this application. The first is the default mode created with:

```bash
docker build \
  --build-arg="NEW_UID=1000" \
  --build-arg="NEW_GID=1000" \
  -f docker/Dockerfile \
  -t gfmodules-revocation-api \
  .
```

This will build a docker container that will run its migrations to the database specified in app.conf.

To run the container, you can use the following command:

```bash
docker run -ti --rm -p 8525:8525 \
  gfmodules-revocation-api
```

The second mode is a "standalone" mode, where it will not run migrations, and where you must explicitly specify
an app.conf mount.

```bash
docker build \
  --build-arg="standalone=true" \
  --build-arg="NEW_UID=1000" \
  --build-arg="NEW_GID=1000" \
  -f docker/Dockerfile \
  -t gfmodules-revocation-api \
  .
```

Both containers only differ in their init script and the default version usually will mount its own local src directory
into the container's /src dir.

Finally you can run this standalone container with the following command:

```bash
docker run -ti --rm -p 8525:8525 \
  --mount type=bind,source=./app.conf.example,target=/src/app.conf \
  gfmodules-revocation-api
```

### note:
You can also use `docker compose` to build and run the containers. refer to [docker-compose.yml](./docker-compose.yml)
to make adjustments as desired.

You can also make adjustments to as needed to the application configuration by modifying the app.config file (see [app.conf.example](./app.conf.example))
in case you want to run the app outside docker for example or adjust dependencies accordingly. 

## Purpose

This API allows revocation of verifiable credentials in a GFModules environment. An issuer can allocate a revocation
index which can be stored inside the verifiable credential. Any verifier can download the revocation list from this
API and check if the given revocation index is still valid.

Note that we do not connect the verifier to the revocation service. The revocation service will never know which index
is being checked for privacy reasons. This is why each verifier will download the entire revocation list and check
the index against the list.

## Contribution

As stated in the [Disclaimer](#disclaimer) this project and all associated code serve solely as documentation and
demonstration purposes to illustrate potential system communication patterns and architectures.

For that reason we will only accept contributions that fit this goal. We do appreciate any effort from the
community, but because our time is limited it is possible that your PR or issue is closed without a full justification.

If you plan to make non-trivial changes, we recommend to open an issue beforehand where we can discuss your planned changes. This increases the chance that we might be able to use your contribution (or it avoids doing work if there are reasons why we wouldn't be able to use it).

Note that all commits should be signed using a gpg key.
